docs/version3.md, before:

---
title: Version 3
---


Savon 3.0 is currently under development and [available for testing on GitHub](https://github.com/savonrb/savon/tree/version3).  
You can add it to your Gemfile right now:

``` bash
gem 'savon', github: 'savonrb/savon', branch: 'version3'
```


Getting started
---------------

Instantiate Savon with a URL or the path to a local WSDL document.

``` ruby
client = Savon.new('http://example.com?wsdl')
```

Operations are separated by service and port and you need to specify them to get an Operation to call.
Savon exposes the services and ports defined by the WSDL along with their namespace and endpoint for you.

``` ruby
client.services
```

For most services, this will return a Hash with a single service and a single port, but some services
actively use multiple services and ports so you need to know about them. Here is an example for a WSDL
with a single service and port.

``` ruby
{
  'AccountService' {
    ports: {
      'AccountPort' {
        type: 'http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/',
        location: 'http://example.com/AccountService'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

With this, you can get a list of Operations for a service and port:

``` ruby
service_name = :AccountService
port_name    = :AccountPort

client.operations(service_name, port_name)
# => ['updateStatus', 'openCase', ...]
```

and more importantly, you can ask for an Operation:

``` ruby
service_name   = 'AccountService'
port_name      = 'AccountPort'
operation_name = :updateStatus

operation = client.operation(service_name, port_name, operation_name)
```

Notice how you can use both Strings and Symbols for the service, ports and operation names.
The casing matches the casing defined by the WSDL. Savon no longer converts names to snakecase
and it also doesn't treat Symbols in any special way.

Now let's look at how you can configure and call this Operation. Just like Savon exposed the
services, ports and operations, it can also tell you about the operation's parameters.

``` ruby
operation.example_body
```

This looks at the parts defined for the SOAP body and returns a Hash that follows the structure
expected by Savon (needs to be formalized) to call the operation. Keys are matching parameter-/
element-names and values indicate the simple types. Currently this Hash contains both required
and optional elements without a good way to indicate what's required and what's not. If you can
think of a nice way to accomplish this, please let me know.

``` ruby
{
  updateStatus: {
    accountID: 'string',
    accountStatus: 'string'
  }
}
```

Savon also knows the parts defined for the SOAP header and of course you can create an example
Hash for that as well. In case Savon returns an empty Hash, then there is no header and you don't
need to care about it.

``` ruby
operation.example_header
```

SOAP headers are currently limited to what's defined by the WSDL, but support for WSSE authentication
and other header-based extensions can certainly be added later.

Knowing the expected parameters for the SOAP header and body, you can add your values, set the
header and body and call the Operation.

``` ruby
operation.header = {
  Security: {
    UsernameToken: {
      Username: 'admin',
      Password: 'secret'
    }
  }
}

operation.body = {
  updateStatus: {
    accountID: 23,
    accountStatus: 'closed'
  }
}

response = operation.call
```

This returns a Response object which currently kind of works like the Response returned
by Savon 2.0, but this may still change. The main focus right now is on delivering a nice
interface for requests and working with parameters.

Apart from the header and body, the Operation also features a couple of other properties
which probably don't need to be explained in detail right now, so here they are.
Agile documentation ;)

``` ruby
# Accessor for the SOAP endpoint.
operation.endpoint

# Accessor for the SOAP version.
operation.soap_version

# Accessor for the SOAPAction HTTP header.
operation.soap_action

# Accessor for the encoding. Defaults to 'UTF-8'.
operation.encoding

# Accesor for the HTTP headers. Defaults to include the SOAPAction and Content-Length.
operation.http_headers
```

These properties affect both the request XML and the HTTP headers and until I find the
time to document them, you can generate the request XML without actually calling the
service and discover how those work.

``` ruby
operation.build
```

This returns the most beautiful SOAP you have ever seen!

``` xml
<env:Envelope
    xmlns:lol0="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2002/07/secext"
    xmlns:lol1="http://example.com/V10"
    xmlns:env="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/">
  <env:Header>
    <lol0:Security>
      <UsernameToken>
        <Username>admin</Username>
        <Password>secret</Password>
      </UsernameToken>
    </lol0:Security>
  </env:Header>
  <env:Body>
    <lol1:updateStatus>
      <lol1:accountID>23</lol1:accountID>
      <lol1:accountStatus>closed</lol1:accountStatus>
    </lol1:updateStatusForManagedPublisher>
  </env:Body>
</env:Envelope>
```

More documentation coming soon. Please follow the guide, give it a try and provide feedback!

In case this crashes, please provide your WSDL for testing purposes.  
The ticket for this is over at [savonrb/wasabi#27](https://github.com/savonrb/wasabi/issues/27).

Thank you!


Logging
-------

Savon 3.0 uses the [Logging](https://github.com/TwP/logging) gem which allows us to use multiple
loggers and easily control them from the outside. Please make sure to read the documentation for
this library in order to customize logging.

Let me give you an example of how you would change the log level and add a STDOUT appender to the
root logger. This basically tells all registered loggers to write everything to STDOUT.

``` ruby
logger = Logging.logger['root']
logger.add_appenders(Logging.appenders.stdout)
logger.level = :debug
```

While the root logger controls all registered loggers, you can also target any single logger by name.


What changed?
-------------

Version 3.0 is mainly driven by improvements to the WSDL parser which now supports both WSDL and XML Schema
imports, which means that we now know all the operations and types defined in the WSDL. This enables us to
really benefit from the specification and assist you in new ways.

Version 2.0 exposed and documented dozens of options which were previously scattered around the library
and one of my goals for version 3.0 was to get rid of the useless ones. One common source of confusion
and problems is that Savon always worked with and without a WSDL and because the parser was not very good,
it didn't always make sense to use a WSDL. The new parser already works great and it only gets better
if it's being used. That's why this version requires and relies on a WSDL document which removes the
need for quite a few options.

Requests are now based on a new type system based on the XML Schema, which means we're getting rid of
[Gyoku](https://github.com/savonrb/gyoku) and [Nori](https://github.com/savonrb/nori). Those libraries work
great in scenarios where you don't have to care about namespaces, types and attributes. Unfortunately, in
order to "get it right", we need to care about that.

Another big set of options was passed directly to [HTTPI](https://github.com/savonrb/httpi) and while Savon
has to execute HTTP requests, it only cares about the HTTP body and headers. This library doesn't need to
know much about HTTP and it certainly doesn't need to complicate the situation by relying on HTTPI.
Version 3.0 does not depend on HTTPI, but uses an adapter class based on
[HTTPClient](https://github.com/nahi/httpclient) which you can extend to use your favourite HTTP client
and to handle more complicated HTTP work.

Last but now least, I merged the code for what was planned to be released as Wasabi 4.0 into Savon.
This was really just an experiment, but merging the two libraries was super easy and removed quite a few
duplicated fixtures and specs. So all the code and tests for this are back in one repository, which
is good because it removes the need for me to coordinate releases between all those libraries.


New features
------------

* Version 3.0 requires Ruby 1.9 or higher. Yes, I'm considering this a feature!
* It does not have any opinions on HTTP and allows you to extend it to work in your scenario.
* It is based on specifications and validates against many real world WSDL documents.
* It is way faster than ever before, while now parsing all elements.
* It properly separates operations by service and port.
* It supports WSDL and XML Schema imports.
* It knows the input, output and fault message types, namespaces, etc.
* It can create example requests for you.

This list is probably far from complete.

Commit message:

added some docs about HTTP usage for version3

docs/version3.md, after:

---
title: Version 3
---


Savon 3.0 is currently under development and [available for testing on GitHub](https://github.com/savonrb/savon/tree/version3).  
You can add it to your Gemfile right now:

``` bash
gem 'savon', github: 'savonrb/savon', branch: 'version3'
```


Getting started
---------------

Instantiate Savon with a URL or the path to a local WSDL document.

``` ruby
client = Savon.new('http://example.com?wsdl')
```

Operations are separated by service and port and you need to specify them to get an Operation to call.
Savon exposes the services and ports defined by the WSDL along with their namespace and endpoint for you.

``` ruby
client.services
```

For most services, this will return a Hash with a single service and a single port, but some services
actively use multiple services and ports so you need to know about them. Here is an example for a WSDL
with a single service and port.

``` ruby
{
  'AccountService' {
    ports: {
      'AccountPort' {
        type: 'http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/',
        location: 'http://example.com/AccountService'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

With this, you can get a list of Operations for a service and port:

``` ruby
service_name = :AccountService
port_name    = :AccountPort

client.operations(service_name, port_name)
# => ['updateStatus', 'openCase', ...]
```

and more importantly, you can ask for an Operation:

``` ruby
service_name   = 'AccountService'
port_name      = 'AccountPort'
operation_name = :updateStatus

operation = client.operation(service_name, port_name, operation_name)
```

Notice how you can use both Strings and Symbols for the service, ports and operation names.
The casing matches the casing defined by the WSDL. Savon no longer converts names to snakecase
and it also doesn't treat Symbols in any special way.

Now let's look at how you can configure and call this Operation. Just like Savon exposed the
services, ports and operations, it can also tell you about the operation's parameters.

``` ruby
operation.example_body
```

This looks at the parts defined for the SOAP body and returns a Hash that follows the structure
expected by Savon (needs to be formalized) to call the operation. Keys are matching parameter-/
element-names and values indicate the simple types. Currently this Hash contains both required
and optional elements without a good way to indicate what's required and what's not. If you can
think of a nice way to accomplish this, please let me know.

``` ruby
{
  updateStatus: {
    accountID: 'string',
    accountStatus: 'string'
  }
}
```

Savon also knows the parts defined for the SOAP header and of course you can create an example
Hash for that as well. In case Savon returns an empty Hash, then there is no header and you don't
need to care about it.

``` ruby
operation.example_header
```

SOAP headers are currently limited to what's defined by the WSDL, but support for WSSE authentication
and other header-based extensions can certainly be added later.

Knowing the expected parameters for the SOAP header and body, you can add your values, set the
header and body and call the Operation.

``` ruby
operation.header = {
  Security: {
    UsernameToken: {
      Username: 'admin',
      Password: 'secret'
    }
  }
}

operation.body = {
  updateStatus: {
    accountID: 23,
    accountStatus: 'closed'
  }
}

response = operation.call
```

This returns a Response object which currently kind of works like the Response returned
by Savon 2.0, but this may still change. The main focus right now is on delivering a nice
interface for requests and working with parameters.

Apart from the header and body, the Operation also features a couple of other properties
which probably don't need to be explained in detail right now, so here they are.
Agile documentation ;)

``` ruby
# Accessor for the SOAP endpoint.
operation.endpoint

# Accessor for the SOAP version.
operation.soap_version

# Accessor for the SOAPAction HTTP header.
operation.soap_action

# Accessor for the encoding. Defaults to 'UTF-8'.
operation.encoding

# Accesor for the HTTP headers. Defaults to include the SOAPAction and Content-Length.
operation.http_headers
```

These properties affect both the request XML and the HTTP headers and until I find the
time to document them, you can generate the request XML without actually calling the
service and discover how those work.

``` ruby
operation.build
```

This returns the most beautiful SOAP you have ever seen!

``` xml
<env:Envelope
    xmlns:lol0="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2002/07/secext"
    xmlns:lol1="http://example.com/V10"
    xmlns:env="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/">
  <env:Header>
    <lol0:Security>
      <UsernameToken>
        <Username>admin</Username>
        <Password>secret</Password>
      </UsernameToken>
    </lol0:Security>
  </env:Header>
  <env:Body>
    <lol1:updateStatus>
      <lol1:accountID>23</lol1:accountID>
      <lol1:accountStatus>closed</lol1:accountStatus>
    </lol1:updateStatusForManagedPublisher>
  </env:Body>
</env:Envelope>
```

More documentation coming soon. Please follow the guide, give it a try and provide feedback!

In case this crashes, please provide your WSDL for testing purposes.  
The ticket for this is over at [savonrb/wasabi#27](https://github.com/savonrb/wasabi/issues/27).

Thank you!


HTTP
----

Savon uses a simple adapter based on the [HTTPClient](https://github.com/nahi/httpclient) gem.
You can get access to the HTTPClient instance to configure authentication and other details.

``` ruby
client.http
```

As Savon resolves imports on instantiation, this might not work for you. So if you need to
configure the HTTP client for those imports or if you have any other especially complicated
HTTP configurations, you can use your own adapter which only has to support three methods as
illustrated by this [specification](https://github.com/savonrb/savon/blob/version3/spec/savon/httpclient_spec.rb).
You can then globally change the adapter to use.

``` ruby
Savon.http_adapter = MyAdapter
```

or you can pass an instance of your adapter to Savon to only use it per-client.

``` ruby
Savon.new(wsdl_url, MyAdapter.new)
```


Logging
-------

Savon 3.0 uses the [Logging](https://github.com/TwP/logging) gem which allows us to use multiple
loggers and easily control them from the outside. Please make sure to read the documentation for
this library in order to customize logging.

Let me give you an example of how you would change the log level and add a `STDOUT` appender to the
root logger. This basically tells all registered loggers to write everything to `STDOUT`.

``` ruby
logger = Logging.logger['root']
logger.add_appenders(Logging.appenders.stdout)
logger.level = :debug
```

While the root logger controls all registered loggers, you can also target any single logger by name.


What changed?
-------------

Version 3.0 is mainly driven by improvements to the WSDL parser which now supports both WSDL and XML Schema
imports, which means that we now know all the operations and types defined in the WSDL. This enables us to
really benefit from the specification and assist you in new ways.

Version 2.0 exposed and documented dozens of options which were previously scattered around the library
and one of my goals for version 3.0 was to get rid of the useless ones. One common source of confusion
and problems is that Savon always worked with and without a WSDL and because the parser was not very good,
it didn't always make sense to use a WSDL. The new parser already works great and it only gets better
if it's being used. That's why this version requires and relies on a WSDL document which removes the
need for quite a few options.

Requests are now based on a new type system based on the XML Schema, which means we're getting rid of
[Gyoku](https://github.com/savonrb/gyoku) and [Nori](https://github.com/savonrb/nori). Those libraries work
great in scenarios where you don't have to care about namespaces, types and attributes. Unfortunately, in
order to "get it right", we need to care about that.

Another big set of options was passed directly to [HTTPI](https://github.com/savonrb/httpi) and while Savon
has to execute HTTP requests, it only cares about the HTTP body and headers. This library doesn't need to
know much about HTTP and it certainly doesn't need to complicate the situation by relying on HTTPI.
Version 3.0 does not depend on HTTPI, but uses an adapter class based on
[HTTPClient](https://github.com/nahi/httpclient) which you can extend to use your favourite HTTP client
and to handle more complicated HTTP work.

Last but now least, I merged the code for what was planned to be released as Wasabi 4.0 into Savon.
This was really just an experiment, but merging the two libraries was super easy and removed quite a few
duplicated fixtures and specs. So all the code and tests for this are back in one repository, which
is good because it removes the need for me to coordinate releases between all those libraries.


New features
------------

* Version 3.0 requires Ruby 1.9 or higher. Yes, I'm considering this a feature!
* It does not have any opinions on HTTP and allows you to extend it to work in your scenario.
* It is based on specifications and validates against many real world WSDL documents.
* It is way faster than ever before, while now parsing all elements.
* It properly separates operations by service and port.
* It supports WSDL and XML Schema imports.
* It knows the input, output and fault message types, namespaces, etc.
* It can create example requests for you.

This list is probably far from complete.
